Version 1
For the purposes of screen readers, any mention in this document of Cambridge IGCSE 
refers to Cambridge International General Certificate of Secondary Education.Syllabus
Cambridge IGCSE™ 
Physics 0625
Use this syllabus for exams in 2026, 2027 and 2028.
Exams are available in the June and November series.
Exams are also available in the March series in India.
Why choose Cambridge International?
Cambridge International prepares school students for life, helping them develop an informed curiosity and a 
lasting passion for learning. We are part of the University of Cambridge.
Our Cambridge Pathway gives students a clear path for educational success from age 5 to 19. Schools can 
shape the curriculum around how they want students to learn – with a wide range of subjects and flexible ways 
to offer them. It helps students discover new abilities and a wider world, and gives them the skills they need for 
life, so they can achieve at school, university and work.
Our programmes and qualifications set the global standard for international education. They are created by 
subject experts, are rooted in academic rigour and reflect the latest educational research. They provide a 
strong platform for learners to progress from one stage to the next, and are well supported by teaching and 
learning resources. Learn more about our research at www.cambridgeassessment.org.uk/our-research/
We believe education works best when curriculum, teaching, learning and assessment are closely aligned. 
Our programmes develop deep knowledge, conceptual understanding and higher-order thinking skills, to 
prepare students for their future. Together with schools, we develop Cambridge learners who are confident, 
responsible, reflective, innovative and engaged – equipped for success in the modern world.
Every year, nearly a million Cambridge students from 10 000 schools in 160 countries prepare for their future 
with the Cambridge Pathway. 
School feedback:  ‘We think the Cambridge curriculum is superb preparation for university.’
Feedback from: Christoph Guttentag, Dean of Undergraduate Admissions, Duke University, USA
Quality management
Cambridge International is committed to providing exceptional quality. In line with this commitment, our 
quality management system for the provision of international education programmes and qualifications  
for students aged 5 to 19 is independently certified as meeting the internationally recognised standard,  
ISO 9001:2015. Learn more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/about-us/our-standards/
© Cambridge University Press & Assessment September 2023
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambridge University Press & Assessment. Cambridge University Press & 
Assessment is a department of the University of Cambridge.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment retains the copyright on all its publications. Registered centres are permitted to copy 
material from this booklet for their own internal use. However, we cannot give permission to centres to photocopy any material that is 
acknowledged to a third party even for internal use within a centre.
Important: C hanges to this syllabus
For information about changes to this syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028, go to page 60.Contents
Why choose Cambridge International?  ........................................................................ 2
1 Why choose this syllabus?  ........................................................................................ 4
2 Syllabus overview  ....................................................................................................... 7
Aims  7
Content overview  8
Assessment overview  9
Assessment objectives  10
3 Subject content  ......................................................................................................... 12
4 Details of the assessment  ....................................................................................... 42
Core assessment 42
Extended assessment  42
Practical assessment  43
Language of measurement 45
Apparatus  46
Safety in the laboratory 48
Electrical symbols 49
Symbols and units for physical quantities  50
Mathematical requirements  52
Presentation of data  53
Conventions (e.g. signs, symbols, terminology and nomenclature)  54
Command words 55
5 What else you need to know  ................................................................................... 56
Before you start 56
Making entries 57
Accessibility and equality  57
After the exam 58
How students and teachers can use the grades 59
Changes to this syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028 60
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028.4
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents page1 Why choose this syllabus? 
Key benefits  
Cambridge IGCSE is the world’s most popular international 
qualification for 14 to 16 year olds, although it can be taken by 
students of other ages. It is tried, tested and trusted. 
Students can choose from 70 subjects in any combination – it is 
taught by over 5000 schools in 150 countries.
Our programmes promote a thorough knowledge and 
understanding of a subject and help to develop the skills 
learners need for their next steps in education or employment. 
Cambridge IGCSE Physics  develops a set of transferable 
skills including handling data, practical problem-solving and 
applying the scientific method. Learners develop relevant 
attitudes, such as concern for accuracy and precision, 
objectivity, integrity, enquiry, initiative and inventiveness. They acquire the essential scientific skills required for 
progression to further studies or employment.
Our approach in Cambridge IGCSE Physics encourages learners to be:
confident , interested in learning about science, questioning ideas and using scientific language to 
communicate their views and opinions
responsible , working methodically and safely when working alone or collaboratively with others 
reflective , learning from their experiences and interested in scientific issues that affect the individual, the 
community and the environment
innovative , solving unfamiliar problems confidently and creatively
engaged , keen to develop scientific skills, curious about scientific principles and their application in the world.
School feedback:  ‘The strength of Cambridge IGCSE qualifications is internationally 
recognised and has provided an international pathway for our students to continue their studies 
around the world.’
Feedback from:  Gary Tan, Head of Schools and CEO, Raffles Group of Schools, IndonesiaCambridge
learner
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Why choose this syllabus?  
5
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents pageInternational recognition and acceptance
Our expertise in curriculum, teaching and learning, and assessment is the basis for the recognition of our 
programmes and qualifications around the world. The combination of knowledge and skills in Cambridge 
IGCSE Physics gives learners a solid foundation for further study. Candidates who achieve grades A* to C are 
well prepared to follow a wide range of courses including Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics.
Cambridge IGCSEs are accepted and valued by leading universities and employers around the world as 
evidence of academic achievement. Cambridge students can be confident that their qualifications will be 
understood and valued throughout their education and career, in their home country and internationally. 
Many universities require a combination of Cambridge International AS & A Levels and Cambridge IGCSEs or 
equivalent to meet their entry requirements.
UK ENIC, the national agency in the UK for the recognition and comparison of international qualifications and 
skills, has carried out an independent benchmarking study of Cambridge IGCSE and found it to be comparable 
to the standard of the GCSE in the UK. This means students can be confident that their Cambridge IGCSE 
qualifications are accepted as equivalent to UK GCSEs by leading universities worldwide.
Learn more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/recognition
School feedback:  ‘Cambridge IGCSE is one of the most sought-after and recognised 
qualifications in the world. It is very popular in Egypt because it provides the perfect 
preparation for success at advanced level programmes.’
Feedback from:  Managing Director of British School of Egypt BSE
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Why choose this syllabus?  
6
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents pageSupporting teachers
We believe education is most effective when curriculum, teaching and learning, and assessment are closely 
aligned. We provide a wide range of resources, detailed guidance, innovative training and targeted professional 
development so that you can give your students the best possible preparation for Cambridge IGCSE. To find 
out which resources are available for each syllabus go to our School Support Hub. 
The School Support Hub is our secure online site for Cambridge teachers where you can find the resources 
you need to deliver our programmes. You can also keep up to date with your subject and the global Cambridge 
community through our online discussion forums.  
Find out more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/support
Support for Cambridge IGCSE
Planning and 
preparation
 •Syllabuses
 •Schemes of work
 •Specimen Question 
Papers and Mark 
Schemes
 •Teacher guidesTeaching and 
assessment
 •Endorsed resources
 •Online forums
 •Support for 
coursework 
and speaking 
components
 •Resource Plus
 •Everyday ScienceLearning and revision
 •Example candidate 
responses
 •Past papers and 
mark schemes
 •Specimen paper 
answers
 •Test MakerResults
 •Candidate Results 
Service
 •Principal examiner 
reports for teachers
 •Results Analysis
Sign up for email notifications about changes to syllabuses, including new and revised products and services, 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org/syllabusupdates
Syllabuses and specimen materials represent the final authority on the content and structure of all of our 
assessments. 
Professional development
Find the next step on your professional development journey. 
 •Introductory Professional Development – An introduction to Cambridge programmes and qualifications.  
 •Extension Professional Development – Develop your understanding of Cambridge programmes and 
qualifications to build confidence in your delivery. 
 •Enrichment Professional Development – Transform your approach to teaching with our Enrichment 
workshops. 
 •Cambridge Professional Development Qualifications (PDQs) – Practice-based programmes that transform 
professional learning for practising teachers. Available at Certificate and Diploma level. 
Find out more at: 
www.cambridgeinternational.org/support-and-training-for-schools/professional-development/
Supporting exams officers
We provide comprehensive support and guidance for all Cambridge exams officers.  
Find out more at: www.cambridgeinternational.org/eoguide
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028.7
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents page2 Syllabus overview 
Aims
The aims describe the purposes of a course based on this syllabus. 
You can deliver some of the aims using suitable local, international or historical examples and applications, or 
through collaborative practical work.
The aims are to enable students to:
 •acquire scientific knowledge and understanding of scientific theories and practice
 •develop a range of experimental skills, including handling variables and working safely
 •use scientific data and evidence to solve problems and discuss the limitations of scientific methods 
 •communicate effectively and clearly, using scientific terminology, notation and conventions
 •understand that the application of scientific knowledge can benefit people and the environment
 •enjoy science and develop an informed interest in scientific matters which support further study.
Cambridge Assessment International Education is an education organisation and politically  
neutral. The contents of this syllabus, examination papers and associated materials do not endorse  
any political view. We endeavour to treat all aspects of the exam process neutrally.
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Syllabus overview  
8
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents pageContent overview
Candidates study the following topics:
1 Motion, forces and energy
2 Thermal physics
3 Waves
4 Electricity and magnetism
5 Nuclear physics
6 Space physics
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Syllabus overview  
9
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents pageAssessment overview
All candidates take three papers. 
Candidates who have studied the Core syllabus content, or who are expected to achieve a grade D or below, 
should be entered for Paper 1, Paper 3 and either Paper 5 or Paper 6. These candidates will be eligible for 
grades C to G.
Candidates who have studied the Extended syllabus content (Core and Supplement), and who are expected 
to achieve a grade C or above, should be entered for Paper 2, Paper 4 and either Paper 5 or Paper 6. These 
candidates will be eligible for grades A* to G.
Core assessment
Core candidates take Paper 1 and Paper 3. The questions are based on the Core subject content only: 
Paper 1: Multiple Choice (Core) Paper 3: Theory (Core)
45 minutes
40 marks 30%
40 four-option multiple-choice questions 
Externally assessed1 hour 15 minutes
80 marks 50%
Short-answer and structured questions 
Externally assessed
Extended assessment
Extended candidates take Paper 2 and Paper 4. The questions are based on the Core and Supplement subject 
content: 
Paper 2: Multiple Choice (Extended) Paper 4: Theory (Extended)
45 minutes
40 marks 30%
40 four-option multiple-choice questions 
Externally assessed1 hour 15 minutes
80 marks 50%
Short-answer and structured questions 
Externally assessed
Practical assessment
All candidates take one practical paper from a choice of two: 
Paper 5: Practical Test Paper 6: Alternative to Practical
1 hour 15 minutes
40 marks 20%
Questions will be based on the experimental 
skills in Section 4
Externally assessedOR1 hour 
40 marks 20%
Questions will be based on the experimental 
skills in Section 4
Externally assessed
Information on availability is in the Before you start  section. 
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Syllabus overview  
10
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents pageAssessment objectives
The assessment objectives (AOs) are:
AO1 Knowledge with understanding
Candidates should be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of:
 •scientific phenomena, facts, laws, definitions, concepts and theories
 •scientific vocabulary, terminology and conventions (including symbols, quantities and units)
 •scientific instruments and apparatus, including techniques of operation and aspects of safety
 •scientific and technological applications with their social, economic and environmental implications. 
Subject content defines the factual material that candidates may be required to recall and explain. 
Candidates will also be asked questions which require them to apply this material to unfamiliar contexts and to 
apply knowledge from one area of the syllabus to another.
AO2 Handling information and problem-solving
Candidates should be able, in words or using other written forms of presentation (i.e. symbolic, graphical and 
numerical), to: 
 •locate, select, organise and present information from a variety of sources 
 •translate information from one form to another 
 •manipulate numerical and other data 
 •use information to identify patterns, report trends and form conclusions
 •present reasoned explanations for phenomena, patterns and relationships 
 •make predictions based on relationships and patterns
 •solve problems, including some of a quantitative nature. 
Questions testing these skills may be based on information that is unfamiliar to candidates, requiring them to 
apply the principles and concepts from the syllabus to a new situation, in a logical, deductive way. 
AO3 Experimental skills and investigations
Candidates should be able to: 
 •demonstrate knowledge of how to select and safely use techniques, apparatus and materials (including 
following a sequence of instructions where appropriate)
 •plan experiments and investigations
 •make and record observations, measurements and estimates 
 •interpret and evaluate experimental observations and data 
 •evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements.
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Syllabus overview  
11
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents pageWeighting for assessment objectives
The approximate weightings allocated to each of the assessment objectives (AOs) are summarised below.
Assessment objectives as a percentage of the qualification
Assessment objective Weighting in IGCSE %
AO1 Knowledge with understanding 50
AO2 Handling information and problem-solving 30
AO3 Experimental skills and investigations 20
Total 100
Assessment objectives as a percentage of each component
Assessment objective Weighting in components %
Papers 1 and 2 Papers 3 and 4 Papers 5 and 6
AO1 Knowledge with understanding 63 63 0
AO2 Handling information and problem-solving 37 37 0
AO3 Experimental skills and investigations 0 0 100
Total 100 100 100
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028.12
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents page3 Subject content 
This syllabus gives you the flexibility to design a course that will interest, challenge and engage your learners. 
Where appropriate you are responsible for selecting resources and examples to support your learners’ 
study. These should be appropriate for the learners’ age, cultural background and learning context as well as 
complying with your school policies and local legal requirements.
All candidates should be taught the Core subject content. Candidates who are only taught the Core subject 
content can achieve a maximum of grade C. Candidates aiming for grades A* to C should be taught the 
Extended subject content. The Extended subject content includes both the Core and the Supplement. 
Scientific subjects are, by their nature, experimental. Learners should pursue a fully integrated course which 
allows them to develop their experimental skills by doing practical work and investigations.  
Practical work helps students to:
 •use equipment and materials accurately and safely 
 •develop observational and problem-solving skills
 •develop a deeper understanding of the syllabus topics and the scientific approach
 •appreciate how scientific theories are developed and tested
 •transfer the experimental skills acquired to unfamiliar contexts
 •develop positive scientific attitudes such as objectivity, integrity, cooperation, enquiry and inventiveness
 •develop an interest and enjoyment in science.
1 Motion, forces and energy
1.1 Physical quantities and measurement techniques 
Core
1  Describe the use of rulers and measuring 
cylinders to find a length or a volume
2  Describe how to measure a variety of time 
intervals using clocks and digital timers
3  Determine an average value for a small distance 
and for a short interval of time by measuring 
multiples (including the period of oscillation of a 
pendulum)Supplement
4  Understand that a scalar quantity has 
magnitude (size) only and that a vector quantity 
has magnitude and direction
5  Know that the following quantities are examples 
of scalars: distance, speed, time, mass, energy 
and temperature
6  Know that the following quantities are examples 
of vectors: force, weight, velocity, acceleration, 
momentum, electric field strength and 
gravitational field strength
7  Determine, by calculation and graphically, the 
resultant of two vectors at right angles, limited 
to forces or velocities only
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Subject content  
13
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents page1.2 Motion
Core
1  Define speed as distance travelled per unit 
time; recall and use the equation
 v = s
t
2  Define velocity as speed in a given direction
3  Recall and use the equation
 average speed = total distance travelled
total time taken 
4  Sketch, plot and interpret distance–time and 
speed–time graphs
5  Determine, qualitatively, from given data or the 
shape of a distance–time graph or speed–time 
graph when an object is:
(a) at rest
(b) moving with constant speed
(c) accelerating
(d) decelerating
6  Calculate speed from the gradient of a straight-
line section of a distance–time graph
7  Calculate the area under a speed–time graph to 
determine the distance travelled for motion with 
constant speed or constant acceleration
8  State that the acceleration of free fall g for 
an object near to the surface of the Earth is 
approximately constant and is approximately 
9.8 m / s2Supplement
9  Define acceleration as change in velocity per 
unit time; recall and use the equation
 a = ∆v
∆t
10  Determine from given data or the shape of a 
speed–time graph when an object is moving 
with:
(a) constant acceleration
(b) changing acceleration
11  Calculate acceleration from the gradient of a 
speed–time graph
12  Know that a deceleration is a negative 
acceleration and use this in calculations
13  Describe the motion of objects falling in a 
uniform gravitational field with and without air/
liquid resistance, including reference to terminal 
velocity and drag
1.3 Mass and weight
Core
1  State that mass is a measure of the quantity 
of matter in an object at rest relative to the 
observer
2  State that weight is a gravitational force on an 
object that has mass
3  Define gravitational field strength as force per 
unit mass; recall and use the equation 
 g = W
m
  and know that this is equivalent to the 
acceleration of free fall
4  Know that weights (and masses) may be 
compared using a balance Supplement
5  Describe, and use the concept of, weight as 
the effect of a gravitational field on a mass
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Subject content  
14
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents page1.4 Density
Core
1  Define density as mass per unit volume; recall 
and use the equation
 ρ = m
V
2  Describe how to determine the density of a 
liquid, of a regularly shaped solid and of an 
irregularly shaped solid which sinks in a liquid 
(volume by displacement), including appropriate 
calculations
3  Determine whether an object floats or sinks 
based on density dataSupplement
4  Determine whether one liquid will float on 
another liquid based on density data given that 
the liquids do not mix
1.5 Forces
1.5.1 Effects of forces
Core
1  Know that forces may produce changes in the 
size, shape and motion of an object
2  Sketch, plot and interpret load–extension 
graphs for an elastic solid and describe the 
associated experimental procedures
3  Determine the resultant of two or more forces 
acting along the same straight line  
4  Know that an object either remains at rest or 
continues in a straight line at constant speed 
unless acted on by a resultant force
5  State that a resultant force may change the 
velocity of an object by changing its direction of 
motion or its speedSupplement
9  Define the spring constant as force per unit 
extension; recall and use the equation
 k = F
x
10  Define and use the term ‘limit of proportionality’ 
for a load–extension graph and identify this 
point on the graph (an understanding of the 
elastic limit is not required)
11  Recall and use the equation F = ma and know 
that the force and the acceleration are in the 
same direction
12  Describe, qualitatively, motion in a circular path 
due to a force perpendicular to the motion as:
(a)  speed increases if force increases, with 
mass and radius constant
(b)  radius decreases if force increases, with 
mass and speed constant
(c)  an increased mass requires an increased 
force to keep speed and radius constant 
 ( F = mv 2
r is not required)
continued
Cambridge IGCSE Physics 0625 syllabus for 2026, 2027 and 2028. Subject content  
15
www.cambridgeinternational.org/igcse Back to contents page1.5 Forces continued
1.5.1 Effects of forces continued
Core
6  Describe solid friction as the force between two 
surfaces that may impede relative motion and 
produce heating
7  Know that friction (drag) acts on an object 
moving through a liquid
8  Know that friction (drag) acts on an object 
moving through a gas (e.g. air resistance)Supplement
1.5.2 Turning effect of forces
Core
1  Describe the moment of a force as a measure 
of its turning effect and give everyday examples
2  Define the moment of a force as  
moment = force × perpendicular distance from 
the pivot; recall and use this equation
3  Apply the principle of moments to situations 
with one force each side of the pivot, including 
balancing of a beam
4  State that, when there is no resultant force and 
no resultant moment, an object is in equilibriumSupplement
5  Apply the principle of moments to other 
situations, including those with more than one 
force each side of the pivot
6  Describe an experiment to demonstrate that 
there is no resultant moment on an object in 
equilibrium
1.5.3  Centre of gravity
Core
1  State what is meant by centre of gravity
2  Describe an experiment to determine the 
position of the centre of gravity of an irregularly 
shaped plane lamina
3  Describe, qualitatively, the effect of the position 
of the centre of gravity and the angle of tilt of a 
simple object on its stabilitySupplement